From the Manifold FAQ:
Prediction markets allow you to bet on the outcome of future events.
The prices for shares on each outcome can be interpreted as the probability that the underlying event will happen and track what market participants in aggregate believe.
As more people trade on the market, the probability estimate converges to reflect the truth. Since these probabilities are public, anyone can use them to make more informed decisions.
Prices are decided by traders buying or selling shares in outcomes of events. The more shares traders buy, the higher the price will be.
The probability is the value implied by the current market price. If a market chance is 75%, that means traders have determined that there is a 75% chance the market will resolve YES, and they are willing to spend up to M75 for a M100 return if they are correct.
Whenever you place a bet, you spend mana to buy shares of a particular outcome.
The number of shares you own determines your pay-out when the market resolves. Each correct share is worth M1 at resolution.
Example: In a YES / NO market, if you own 300 YES shares, you will earn M300 if the market resolves YES and M0 if the market resolves NO.
We do a calculation behind the scenes to determine what the price of each share is. The greater the probability of the outcome, the more expensive that type of share will be. So if the market probability is 3% then the NO shares will be super expensive (giving you a bad pay-out), but yes shares will be cheap.
Due to the price of shares fluctuating with the probability you can potentially "buy low and sell high" similar to how you might on a stock market. Selling shares will always give you less value than waiting for a correct resolution, but may be less risky.
The liquidity in a market is the amount of capital available for traders to trade against. Markets with more liquidity are typically more trustworthy.
    The greater the liquidity, the harder it is to shift the probability.
        This allows users to bet more mana to move the probability to where they want it.
        Increases room for profit and the incentive to bet.
        Makes it more difficult for one individual to temporarily skew the probability with a big bet.
    All markets start with some liquidity from the cost of creating a market. The entirety of the initial cost goes towards liquidity. Some types of markets cost more due to requiring a higher amount of liquidity to function well.


1. The !newmarket command will run the new_market() function, which does the following:
    1a. Asks the following prompts:
        "What is the market name?",
        "What is the resolution criteria?",
        "What is the starting liquidity?",
        "What is the initialized probability?",
    1b. Requests payment from the user equal to the starting liqudity, cancelling if payment is rejected
    1c. Reserves that money for the market
    1d. Creates a market message
2. The market message has the following buttons:
    2a. "Buy", which asks the following prompts:
        "Do you want to buy yes shares or no shares?",
        "How much money do you want to spend?",
        "This will raise the probability to {new_probability}. Do you understand?",
    2b. "Resolve", which can only be used by the market creator, and which asks the following prompts:
        "Resolve as yes (y) or no (n)?",
3. Yes shares have a price equal to the probability, No shares have a price equal to 1 - the probability.
4. Buying shares moves the probability according to the market liquidity.
5. Resolving a market (which can only be done by the market creator) causes all shares to be cashed out to users using money from the liquidity pool, and any spare liquidity is given back to the market creator.
6. No shares are equal to negative Yes shares. Buying one while owning the other is the same as selling, and returns money to the user.
7. A bunch of other things I forgot to write
